in an earli video we have seen the uh
convolutional networks and the basic
operation uh in this uh video what we
actually introducing here uh is residual
networks which is to to this day um
several years after the introduction
remain one of the main uh used
architectures uh for feature extraction
and not only as a basic component of
many more advanced uh CNN architectures
and and uh that are doing more more
complicated tasks such as object
detection semantic segmentation and
others that we will see in another uh in
another video uh so the uh history if
you like of their introduction uh you
know started uh around 2015 where people
realized that it's um not really
possible to extend the so-called uh
architectures of the time let's say the
vgg architecture uh we've seen the V
architecture on on a different U video
earlier in this uh in this actually
topic over here uh where we have SE we
have seen the sort of uh architecture of
the V16 Network and uh what was actually
happening then and now that we
understand a couple of things about back
propagation uh the uh gradient
had a lot of problems to
flow all the way to the input of the
network uh and uh the U sort of
bottlenecks that were actually generated
created a significant problems in the
training of these uh architectures so
around
2015 a researcher at
Microsoft uh you know found a solution
on how to enable uh that gradient to
flow uh
freely in uh in a much deeper
architectures such as uh the ones that
we will see in a moment and uh the uh
this gave their uh the name residual
because it in that architecture we
Implement what we call a residual unit
and from from now on we'll refer to to
those networks as rest nets all right so
in order for us to understand what is
going on with rest Nets or what I'm
going to do now is I'm going to draw uh
a very small rest architecture just
consisting of three
units U and if I may draw the
architecture will that's my uh unit
which I'll abstract with the letter
F1 so the input to the so I'll use a bit
different terminology from what I was
used kind of earlier so I'll be calling
set of X I'll be calling it y0 I could
have used it also x0 but in my not over
here I have uh the uh this as y z okay
so the y z goes into a block that will
consist of one or more convolutional
kind of
layers and in the residual architecture
and this is uh why we call it residuals
we take the
input and add it with a
unit uh gain into to the output to the
output okay so to form what we call now
a y1 the y1 is uh being added
into again with exactly the same
approach and this
is the
output Y2
and uh the Y2 is similarly
added to form the
final Y3 output okay so this is the kind
of a basic rest net kind of
architecture uh in U and if you compare
what we have seen earlier with the cnns
we had convolutional layers Max pool
layers and so nonlinear evidently over
here but we never had this kind of skip
over connection uh as we call it okay so
I want to just uh go ahead and write now
the
um expression of the output of each of
these uh
blocks with respect
to the input so I hope you
agree uh that this is exactly what each
of these blocks is
Implement okay so we have uh the FI of Y
IUS one plus the Y IUS one in each of
these so if I may write down these
equations for uh let's say the
Y3 is equal to F3 of Y2 +
Y2 um the Y2
itself is FS2 of y1 + y1
and the y1 is fub1 of y0 + y0 these are
the three equations for each of the
three blocks that I have here and what I
want to do now is I want to start
replacing the Y2 uh and y1 uh into the
equation Y3 because I want to write down
the equation the the form of the Y3 as a
function of only the y0 and the two um
functions that are involved in the
blocks F1 and F2 okay so all right so
what I'm going to do now is I'm going to
write it as
F3 of
Y2 I'm sorry F3 of
FS2 of y1 +
y1 + FS2 of Y y 1 +
y1 okay so I just replace it Y2 with it
equal and now I can uh uh replace
now let me write it over here because I
just need a long line to replace
it to make the final replacement so it
is
F3 of F2 now I'm going to replace the F
y1 with its equal to uh obtain the
final
expression and this is now the second
square
bracket okay so it is really this
bracket over here
plus
plus I have
FS2 of FS1 of y0 +
y0 plus
fub1 of y0 + y
z okay so this is uh my final expression
with respect
to the output of Y3 and why I did that I
want to take this kind of architecture
and write its equivalent that we just
based on this equation and that kind of
re- plotting or redraw drawing of this
kind of architecture will help me kind
of understand a couple of things about
the advantages of rest Nets and why they
solve the problem of gradient flow
throughout the
network okay so I am going to start so
I'm dividing this into um two parts uh I
am going to um
first uh draw
the long part over here this F3
expression here at the at the bottom so
I am going to take this accepts as input
y0 that's the only input in this
diagram um so y0 is going into the
function
F1 F1
we are adding now the function
uh the the y z into it okay so that's
basically uh this
term all right so then we take the FS2
of this term so the output of this is
being fed to
F2 and uh what we do is uh we add for
this FS2 we add this term over here F1 y
0 + y0 so we add to it
another
block involving the function
F1 okay so this is basically this inner
term over here and then finally we are
taking the F3 of that so this is
basically my F3 so if I am a um
Circle if I may Circle this uh this will
be let's say
a this a will be available over
here okay so we have now finished with
the plotting of the first term and now
let's look at the second
term so the second term is simply FS2 of
y1 y 0 + y0 so I am going to go again
here this is in fact just one
line so I'm going to just take again
fub1 of
y0 + y0
and I'm simply going to take the F2 of
that and uh this thing over here
is the point
B however however uh this so this is
basically B let me uh throw it over
here to B now what we have is we simply
add another of these
guys we add to
be this and I would like to Circle that
over because we see here three things
being involved a b and c so this is
C and then B and
C are added to a
and this will actually be my
Y3 and now that we have this kind of
diagram we actually can make some really
nice conclusions out of it uh as you can
see uh the gradient in the backward pass
so the point number one I want to
mention is about the gradient flow
so you can see the gradient flow in the
backward pass during back propagation
now has a a diverse set of paths and to
actually flow all the way to the input
let's say it has this path that simply
just follows all the way to the input y
z the other path that goes
through this F1 to go to the input this
path through F2 and F the concatenation
F2 and and fub1 or via this skip
connection to go to F0 and so on and so
on so what we see here is we have a a
diverse uh set of
paths uh
through uh
each
goes
through um of uh s of of gates I will
call it because this is what we have
used as a term from back
propagation of
varing uh
depth okay for varing depth so that's
kind of important earlier what we had
without those kind of skip connections
we had simply F1 con with two3 in the
So-Cal let's say V architecture so here
we had a a back propagation that it was
involving um just a single trajectory a
single path through all all of these
Gates and at some point the gradient was
actually dying and of course a dying
gradient means that specific
functionality of my network uh they are
being uh updated the parameters are
being updated very very slowly or just
simply seize to be updated so that's not
uh really I mean this is one of the key
observations that led to some kind of
leveling of of the performance of these
earlier kind of architectures uh as the
number of layers were being added up in
this kind of architecture we are
effectively Implement what is actually
known as Highway networks and those
Highway highways that we creating for
the gradient uh empirically has shown
that we are actually can go much much
deeper so we'll see now some depths uh
uh typical depths that we experience in
uh we we have in a resent architect in a
moment the
second uh aspect of that is a bit more
nuanced and it has to do with what we
call an ensample
learning so in this kind of Ensemble
learning architecture what we see is we
see U uh the concatenation the the
combination of three predictors here
three main prediction architectures each
of those predictors has a
varying uh kind of functionality so we
see a fairly involved predictor which we
call a we see another predictor which
call B and another predictor that we
call C and what we see at the output are
the kind of combination of of those
simply um I mean if you are familiar
with ample kind of methods which I'll
provide some kind of background in a
moment we are adding the individual
prediction uh
results given the input y z uh at the to
to obtain our final prediction output
the the so-called Y3 hat okay and and so
that's
um uh um ample methods have uh proven in
the field to be a very powerful uh
approach uh in solving um you know
complex kind of tasks and uh in fact
some methods are being used both for
structure and unstructured data and in
the structure kind of data field you
have methods such as gradient boosting
and so on providing some real
state-of-the-art results today so a few
words about ample methods is arguably a
parenthesis uh but I think it's a kind
of
worthwhile uh sort of discussing a
little bit about ensample methods
so there are various asample methods but
I think a common denominator for many of
them is that the um prediction why hat
that we get from the so-called ensample
also known as committee
methods where we for form a committee a
group of experts or weak Learners as we
call them um is uh let me call it why
hat committee is simply uh the average
let me call it 1 / capital K of the
summation from small letter K is equal
to 1 to capital K where capital K is the
number of predictors that we have here
we had three in the rest net
architecture of Y hat subk so the
premise of emble method is that we don't
necessarily to have the single server
bullet uh that will solve the very
complicated kind of task of us uh that
we have in front of us but uh a number
of what we call the so-called weak
predictors uh that it will U not perform
individually very well but on aggregate
they will actually perform much
better that and that is really the
premise of that and you know one uh
parallel uh architecture with have in
the earlier method uh that we call the
rest net is kind of resembles that kind
of architecture because we have some
kind of a summation combination of these
weak predictions the so-called abs and
C's that I have explained earlier uh so
the um uh in Sample methods in general
we have we can consider performance wise
to consist of uh in somewhere in between
two bounds so the lower bound the So-Cal
lower performance
bound is obtained uh evidently when
you're you have very correlated
predictions and if you are not able to
randomize the operation of each of these
predictors somehow uh we are going to
exhibit this kind of lower bound where
either you form a committee or not you
get exactly the same performance it's
just like the analogy or the equivalent
analogy I would like to uh sort of share
sh is uh you have a committee of let's
say a human uh Committee of human
experts but each expert went to exactly
the same school studied exactly the same
field had exactly the same uh University
professors and they are actually now
called to solve the problem and guess
what each one of them is actually
offering exactly the same view well
that's basically where the point where
you experiencing a lower performance
bound and the upper performance bound is
a bit more nuanced a bit more
complicated to kind of understand but
the best
performance uh what we can actually
get um I think it's better understood
with an analogy um you don't expect
every Committee Member to not make
mistakes they will make mistakes but uh
what you want to do is to have a
committee that they don't make the same
mistake at the same time so the
so-called
uncorrelated uh errors are are involved
in uh sort of show showing some kind of
a performance bound that that is kind of
outside of the scope of this course but
uh I think it's worthwhile um providing
some kind of guidance as to where and
how we will be able to achieve that
upper bound uh so the the main three
ways that we can achieve this kind of
upper bound or try to achieve the best
possible performance out of ample
methods the first is the data component
can we
provide in some way uh different data to
different of to the various kind of weak
predictors that we have here so that we
do not cause um exactly the same
conclusion for each one of them so the
second is to somehow randomize their
operation um
so
randomization is um the second kind of
approach there and I can actually can
offer an example of
randomization maybe we can actually
offer a different um set of
hyperparameters um sort of picked by
some kind of
distribution uh in this uh architecture
see over here uh in in this course u in
some other approaches where we have
let's say uh decision trees involved in
these predictors again for structure
data I'm referring to then we can
randomize their operation by picking
different uh features that they split uh
their uh sort of trees and there are so
many approaches that are you know I
guess too many to to quote over here but
the third approach is a bit more
relevant in this specific rest not
architecture is to Simply use different
predictors or weak learners
so the weak Learners that we called over
here are uh involved in the rest net
architecture and uh so here we have a
predictor of some complexity we have
here another
predictor larger complexity and yet
another predictor or even larger
complexity we have effectively
implementing um you know the third
approach where we have um
those different week Learners each one
is offering a view and then uh finally
the network is deciding based on the
composition of those views okay so that
has been shown to uh sort of provide
performance advantages and and that's
what we kind of had this discussion
about and Sample methods and the third
uh kind of Advantage I wanted to quote
here for rest n is there scalability
so the
scalability um should be understood from
the point of view of uh
complexity um we are effectively able to
have three six n or whatever number of
uh residual blocks each one of them will
actually be uh exactly the same um as uh
you know any other block over here and
therefore we are able to
accommodate
architectures that are have various
various number of these blocks let's say
we see resets with 18 layers 34 layers
you know 50 layers 150 uh 102 layers
even 150 layers these are the numbers
that we have uh we have defined already
existing architectures and this is kind
of important when you have perception
systems that need to comply to some
realtime latency requirement evidently
the larger the number of layers you have
the longer the latencies that you are
going to experience taking an image
through this kind of pipeline so if we
um have let's say a latency of let's say
MCS uh we can um and and therefore we
are not able to accommodate 102 uh 102
layers where definitely going to be
accommodating let's say 50 layers and
the exactly the same technology exactly
the same uh thinking um and behavior of
rest Nets will uh be in either of the uh
numbers quoted here in terms of number
of layers so all of these three
advantages are coming together to
provide a fairly robust architecture has
actually proven in the field in both
real time and unreal time applications
and able to uh extract uh features
provide if you like representations on
uh visual uh imagery that we have the
the imageries that we are feeding into
them